# Floral-hemp-responses-to-nitrogen-fertilization-under-field-conditions-in-the-high-desert

# Floral hemp (Cannabis sativa L.) responses to nitrogen fertilization under field conditions in the high desert

### Data and R code made available for this manuscript submission to PLOS ONE 

### Statistical Analyses conducted by Mona Farnisa

Abstract: While most studies on floral hemp (Cannabis sativa L.) concur that additions of nitrogen (N) increase  plant  growth,  the  performance  of  floral  hemp  is  heavily  influenced  by  environmental conditions,  management  and  cultivar  selection.  In  regions  with  a  short  growing  season,  the availability of soil N may  determine plant developmental rates,  final inflorescence biomass and cannabinoid concentrations, but no studies have addressed this for field-grown hemp under high-desert conditions. This field study evaluated the effect of no supplemental N and N fertilization at 90 kg ha-1 on three hemp cultivars (Berry Blossom, Red Bordeaux, and Tahoe Cinco) in Northern Nevada. N increased  plant  height,  canopy  cover,  stem  diameter  and  shoot  biomass,  but  other physiological  parameters  were  dependent  on  cultivar.  For  instance,  inflorescence  biomass  and inflorescence-to-shoot  ratio  in  Red  Bordeaux  was  not  affected  by  N  fertilization.  Similarly, cannabinoid concentrations were affected by timing of harvest and cultivar but not by N treatment. We evaluated the use of a SPAD meter for ease of determining leaf N deficiency, and correlations with leaf chlorophyll content showed that the SPAD meter was a reliable tool in two cultivars but not in Tahoe Cinco. N treatment increased overall CBD yield, which was driven by increases in inflorescence biomass. Tahoe Cinco was the best CBD yielding cultivar, as it maintained a high inflorescence-to-shoot ratio regardless of N treatment. Our study suggests that even though hemp may  have  a  positive  response  to  soil  N  management,  adjustments  based  on  genotype  by environment  interaction  should  be  aimed  at  maximizing  cannabinoid  yield  either  by  increasing biomass and/or CBD concentrations as long as THC levels are within the permissible <0.3% for U.S. industrial hemp cultivation.

#### University of Nevada, Reno
